[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: So if you want to check
out to Step five, yeah that's it.
We'll hop into testing.
But, before I set you loose and actually
start writing some tests for the lions and
tigers API that we built, let's just walk
through what testing is and how it works.
With Node and Mongo and
the different types of testing, and
what we're actually gonna be testing,
and stuff like that.
So testing is actually
pretty simple in a node.
In my opinion, actually, from testing
other languages and other environments.
And Node is pretty straightforward
compared to other things like for instance
writing test for Android or something like
that, node is actually pretty simple.
Unit tests are very similar to how you
would test in the browser minus the DOM.
So if we were gonna unit test our
JavaScript here on node it would be pretty
much the exact same thing if you were unit
testing in the browser, without the DOM.
For instance, if you providing test for
browser code, four or
five years ago, before Karma came along
and all the other stuff, you would,
you know, use Mocha or Jasmine.
Well probably not Mocha, but something
like Jasmine and it'll generate an HTML
file for you where you loaded up all your
specs and loaded up all your source code,
load up all your dependencies, and
you open that file in the browser, and
then you run the test suite through
there and have a nice UI, right?
And then Karma came along and was like we
can do it from the command line now and
we'll just pipe it to a browser.
But, as far as like the experiences like
writing the test itself it's pretty much
the same and that's mainly due to
the fact that it's still just JavaScript.
So, unit tests are somewhat
the same minus the dom,
which probably makes it
easier cuz there's no dom.
It's just pure function.
Integration testing is what we
actually start testing the API and
what it does when we hit those routes,
right?
So unit testing is testing specific
units in our application like
this function should do this, this object
should have this, stuff like that.
Integration testing is like all right
we're just gonna test the API from
actually hitting this route to see what
the database responds with, right?
We're gonna do integration testing.
We're going to do integration testing,
mainly because the code we've written so
far we haven't written a lot of code,
actually most of the code that we
have written is part of express.
So we start unit testing we'll just
be unit testing what express is
already doing, and
that's already well tested.
We'll just be doing integration testing
to see what our api responds to when we
throw different parameters at it,
and what we expect to come back to.
Any questions so far on that?
Yes.
>> Mark: Is
integration testing a synonym for BDD?
>> Scott Moss: Behavior
driven development?
I wouldn't say it's a synonym.
It's part of BDD, but
I definitely wouldn't say it's a synonym.
BDD is more than just integration testing,
it's just BDD is like a style of testing,
or actually TDD is like test driven
development where like you're gonna write
some tests first.
Like red, green refractor with TDD.
Write a whole bunch of tests and
then have the tests tell you what code
to write to get to get them to pass.
BDD is more like,
we expect this thing to happen so
we are going to write a test to
dictate this entire behavior.
But, yeah, integration testing is part
of BDD but they are not the same thing.
Integration testing is a type of test,
BDD is how you write
tests.
>> Scott Moss: Great,
so a good practice with node in
Express and integration testing
from what I've witnessed is if you export
the app before you're starting it.
So like in our application
that we wrote yesterday.
We were at the bottom
of the file down here,
we were like app.listen,
we're listening to some port or something.
All right,
that's how you start the server.
But when we're testing it,
a good practice is actually to,
instead of listening to the server
right there on that same file.
Let's just export the app so
it can be required somewhere else.
I'll show you why that makes sense but
the big reason is really so
that our tests can
actually use that app and
all the routes on it to make assertions
and go ahead and start the server for us.
So, if we just export
the app before starting it,
we can actually just run the test without
having to start the server manually we can
just have the test do it for us.
So what I'm saying is we set
up our routes like this and
then at the bottom we
would just export the app.
So that also implies that we would have to
make another file that would import this
and start the server, of course, which is
as you'll see is actually pretty good.
Once you see we'll start making
a pretty sophisticated API
that's a good practice as well.
Any questions on that?
Does that not make sense to anybody?
Why I think exporting
the app is a good idea.
We want to expose our entire server
application to like our testing framework.
So if I export it I can do that.
You can also just start the server too and
then export the app.
There's nothing wrong with that but
I would just leave it up to my test
to figure out what it wants to do.
Maybe the test wants to start the server
with a different port or a different
configuration, stuff like that.
>> Scott Moss: So,
strategies for actually testing
our APR are pretty simple too.
It's exactly how you were
testing yesterday, so
we're using like post man or
httppi, you were coming in here,
you were doing something like http and
localhost to your port and
you put like slash tigers, right.
And you do like a get request to that.
And you want to see what comes back.
You actually just, that's what
we're going to do for the test.
But you visually looked at what came back.
You're like, ha ha.
That worked.
That's exactly what I expect it to be.
You looked at the headers, all that stuff.
That's exactly what we're
doing when we write the test.
It just that we're visually
not gonna be looking at it.
The test is gonna be
looking at this stuff.
So we can use a combination
of frameworks like jasmine or
mocha an assertion library
if we don't have one.
So if we use jasmine with
an E that should be E there.
Jasmine has an assertion
library built into it but
if you use mocha you have to provide
your own assertion library, so
we've been using
a combination of that stuff.
And then we're gonna also use
something like supertest.
This is a framework that's
built on top of a framework.
So there's this request framework for
Node that's called superagent.
You can think of it as like the AJAX for
your server.
That's pretty much what it is.
It's like the AJAX for your server.
It's actually built by the same
person who made Express.
So there is this thing called super agent
and then on top of that there's this thing
called super test which allows
us to test our application
also built by the same person who made
express, that's why these two work so
well together, because super test
is made to work with express.
So that's what we're going to use: Mocha,
Chai, and Supertest,
to perform integration testing on
the code that we wrote yesterday.
So here's an example of what
a test would look like.
So, first thing we do
is reacquire our app.
And the reason we can do that is
because we exported it up here.
This is why we exported it.
Because now we can reacquire it.
So now, we have our application.
Our server requires supertest.
Mocha's already loaded up and then we're
just going to write our test suite.
In this case, we're talking about todos so
we describe our todos.
We make an insertion here.
It should get all todos.
So we make a request to our app,
it's a get request.
So this URL,
we're going to set some headers here.
And then we're going to make
some assertions right here.
So we expect the content type to
pass this regex, which is a JSON.
So we expect the content type to be JSON.
We expect to get a 200
back from the server.
And then done, we also get to inspect
this response object, right here.
This response object is what the server
sends back so now we can go ahead and
make assertions on that.
Now I can say,
I expect the response.id to be defined.
And then done, so this is a arbitrary
test, so you can do stuff like this.
Yeah question Mark.
>> Mark: A couple came up here.
If using a testing module should we put
that in our dev dependency instead of
dependencies?
>> Scott Moss: If using a testing module
like chai, and yeah, yeah.
So if you're using anything related to
development or testing yes that should be
in your dev dependencies, so the way you
would do that is when you MPM install.
So if you were going to MPM install
something for testing you say MPM install,
and you can do dash Uppercase D.
Or you can do dash, dash save dash D, or
dev, and then the name of the package.
And that will save in
your dev dependencies.
So yeah, if it's for testing,
it's definitely dev dependencies because
your app actually doesn't need it to run.
It's only there for testing.
But you don't need it to run, so
you see it in dev dependencies.
Good question.
>> Mark: And
the next one was, on testing frameworks,
could you comment on the benefits
of using something like Mocha Jasmine
versus something that gives you less for
free, like Tape?
>> Scott Moss: Tape is
actually pretty awesome.
I just started using tape a month ago, but
I don't know it well
enough to recommend it.
And I didn't really know its
benefits until I used Mocha and
Jasmine for so long.
But as far as Mocha and Jasmine,
Jasmine was the first one, and
it's the full suite.
Jasmine is the one, it was like we're
gonna use this to write tests like this.
Describe it, all this cool stuff.
We're going to supply you
with an insertion library.
And then Mocha came along, written by
the same person who wrote Express.
Or I think he's more than
one person to be honest.
It's a group of people with the same name.
But he came along and they were like,
we're going to write something just like
Jasmine with the same syntax so
it's familiar for everybody.
But then we're not going to require
them to use all the built in tools.
We're gonna allow them to use whatever
they want, so Mocha is just like Jasmine,
except it doesn't come with an insertion
library, a mocking library,
and stuff like that.
So you gotta go get your own.
So if you want the full suite, use Jasmin,
if you wanna use your own third party
stuff, use Mocha, and as far as Tape,
I prefer Tape these days,
it's actually my go to now so.
>> Mark: Another
one rolled in here right at the end too.
When we're running
the server in the workshop
the program will use all the modules
in both dev dependency and dependency.
But in, when in production,
it only uses modules independency.
Is that right?
>> Scott Moss: That's not entirely true.
It depends on what
environment you deploy in.
So for instance, let's say Heroku.
If you deployed Heroku, by default,
Heroku will run NPM install production.
So it'll only install, you're dependencies
inside dependencies, not dev dependencies.
But if you're here and you run NPM install
it's going to install every single
dependency whether it's dev dependency or
a real dependency,
so it's and you can also tell it, you
can force it to install which ones too.
So that's not entirely true, it depends
on what platform you're going to but
you can always override those commands,
but that is the reason why those
two differences exist so you can like
Figure out which ones you wanna install.
So, I wouldn't say that that's guaranteed,
but by default yeah, that might be
the behavior of some platforms like
Heroku, but again, you can override it.
So yeah, we'll talk about environment
variables and how to trigger those things
in a minute.
>> Scott Moss: Cool.
So yeah, here's a basic test.
It's doing exactly what we would do.
We're gonna make a get
request to this url, and
we expect all this stuff to be true.
Or to be whatever we set here.